# Collections

Collections are structured JSON objects that encapsulate a group of related items. They are typically used to represent a set of similar objects, such as a series of publications or a group of users.

Here's how a Collections can be represented in TypeScript:

```ts
interface Collections<T> {
    first: string;
    last: string;
    total_count: number; // unsigned 64-bit integer
    author: string;
    next?: string;
    prev?: string;
    items: T[];
}
```

Collections are intended to be served in a paginated format, with a set of items and links to the next and previous sets of items. For example, if a user has a collection of Notes that is several thousand items long, the server can serve the first 50 items when requested and provide a link to the next 50 items.

Collections **MUST** include:
- A `first` field that holds the URI of the first page of collection items, and a `last` field that holds the URI of the last page of collection items. In the case that there is only one page, `first` and `last` should be the same.
- A `total_count` field that holds the total number of items in the set, across all pages.
- A `next` field that holds the URI of the next set of items, and a `prev` field that holds the URI of the previous set of items. These fields are optional if the user is on the first or last set of items.
- An `items` field that holds a paginated array of items in the set. (for example, a series of publications or a group of users)
- An `author` field that holds the URI of the entity that created the set (such as the [Actor](../objects/actors) that creates posts). This is used to identify the creator of the set for signing. If the set is generated by the server and not by a specific user (such as the Endorsement set with the [ServerEndorsement Extension](/extensions/server-endorsement)), the `author` should be the server actor's URI.

`first`, `last`, `prev` and `next` URIs may use query strings to specify the range of items to be returned. For example, a `first` URI may look like `https://example.com/users/uuid/notes?start=0&end=50`.

It is recommended that pages are limited to a hundred elements at most, but also at least twenty elements, so as to not overload federation with large payloads.

> [!WARNING]
> Like any other payload, Collections are to be signed using the author's private key. Unsigned collections are not valid.